chore(curriculum): add css floats and positioning transcripts (#58983)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lecture-understanding-how-to-work-with-floats-and-positioning-in-css/672aa86da9937560d3dfe3d6.md

# --description--

Watch the video or read the transcript and answer the questions below.

# --transcript--

What are common use cases for using floats, and how do they work?

Floats in CSS are a technique originally designed to allow text to wrap around an element, such as an image. Over time, however, developers found new ways to use floats, applying them to layout design in creative ways. While modern layout methods like Flexbox and Grid are now more commonly used, understanding floats is still important, especially when working with older code or needing to achieve specific layout effects.

> When an element is floated, it’s taken out of the normal document flow and pushed to the left or right of its container. The content that follows will wrap around the floated element, filling the remaining space. One classic use is wrapping text around images, where an image is floated to one side, and text wraps around it. This technique is still widely used, especially in articles and blogs where images need to be placed alongside text. Here is the code example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an element is floated, it's taken out of the normal document flow and pushed to the left or right of its container. The content that follows will wrap around the floated element, filling the remaining space. One classic use is wrapping text around images, where an image is floated to one side, and text wraps around it. This technique is still widely used, especially in articles and blogs where images need to be placed alongside text. Here is the code example:
```

```html
<body>
  <div class="container">
    <img src="https://via.placeholder.com/150" alt="Placeholder Image">
    <p> This is an example of text flowing around a floated image.</p>
  </div>
</body>
```

```css
.container {
  border: 1px solid black;
}

img {
  float: left;
  margin-right: 20px;
}

> In the above example, the container doesn’t wrap around the floated image. The image is out of the normal document flow, and the container collapsed to zero height because it doesn’t “see” the floated children elements. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the container doesn't wrap around the floated image. The image is out of the normal document flow, and the container collapsed to zero height because it doesn't "see" the floated children elements. 
```

> Floats were also popular for creating multi-column layouts before Flexbox and Grid became widespread. By floating elements next to each other, developers could create columns that aligned horizontally. However, when using floats, it’s important to handle the problem of collapsing parent elements when their child elements are floated. The clearfix technique solution is applied to the class container element to fix this issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Floats were also popular for creating multi-column layouts before Flexbox and Grid became widespread. By floating elements next to each other, developers could create columns that aligned horizontally. However, when using floats, it's important to handle the problem of collapsing parent elements when their child elements are floated. The clearfix technique solution is applied to the class container element to fix this issue.
```

```css
/* Clearfix CSS */
.container::after {
  content: "";  
  display: block;
  clear: both;
}
```

- `::after` is a pseudo-element that adds an invisible block after the content of the container.

> - `content: ““` ensures the pseudo-element is present but doesn’t display any content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `content: ""` ensures the pseudo-element is present but doesn’t display any content.
```

- `display: block` makes the pseudo-element a block-level element.
- `clear: both` ensures the pseudo-element clears both sides of any floated elements above it.

> The clearfix technique ensures the parent element wraps around its floated children properly. Clearfix forces the parent container to “see” the floated child elements by adding a clear property after the floated content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The clearfix technique ensures the parent element wraps around its floated children properly. Clearfix forces the parent container to "see" the floated child elements by adding a `clear` property after the floated content.
```

> While floats are no longer the go-to method for complex layouts due to more modern techniques like Flexbox and Grid, they still play an essential role in certain scenarios. Whether you’re wrapping text around images or working on legacy projects, understanding how floats work and how to clear them properly is key to maintaining well-structured and responsive layouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While floats are no longer the go-to method for complex layouts due to more modern techniques like Flexbox and Grid, they still play an essential role in certain scenarios. Whether you're wrapping text around images or working on legacy projects, understanding how floats work and how to clear them properly is key to maintaining well-structured and responsive layouts.
```
